---
title: Add a new region (EN)
---

## Tutorial : A new calculation model for my country / region

:::tip Version française

Ce guide est également disponible en français [voir](./ajout-region-fr).

:::

The internationalization of "Nos Gestes Climat" is complex : it is not only a
question of language translation but also to put in place a solution to adapt
the calculation and language depending on the country an user is connecting
from.

Please, do not hesitate to contribute and to contact us if needed at
`contact@nosgestesclimat.fr` or with a GitHub issue.

## How to contribute?

GitHub is a dedicated platform for code and discussion. [This
page](https://github.com/incubateur-ademe/nosgestesclimat/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
explains you (in french) basics of the language used for the calculation
models. You do not need to be a developper in order to contribute, this
language is intuitive and our infrastructure allows you to publish a version of
your model without having to go through all the website code.

### Step 1 : Create a GitHub account

GitHub is a particularly interesting platform for managing code versions. To
start your own version, create an account on GitHub and find our repository :
[`@incubateur-ademe/nosgestesclimat`](https://github.com/incubateur-ademe/nosgestesclimat)

### Step 2 : Look for your country / region

You can then find the different models we support for the diverse regions and
countries in the directory : `data/i18n/models`

:::note Note

Those files contains calculation rules (in yaml format) which are linked to the
french model (available in the `/data/` directory).

:::

### Your model is not yet supported in NGC ?

You can create your own !  Your file should be named with the country-code
(uppercase), dash-separated with the language code (lowercase) and the
extension `.publicodes`, for instance: for the United-Kingdom, in english the
file is named `UK-en-us.publicodes` (`UK` being the country code of the United
Kingdom and `en-us` being the language code). You can then start writing your
own rule.

:::warning Caution

The `params` section contains the caracteristic of your region and is
mandatory. You should at least indicate the `nom` (name) and `code` attributes.
The `gentilé` (demonym) and `drapeau` (flag) attributes are optionnal.

:::

Example :

```yaml
params:
  code: UK
  nom: United Kingdom
  gentilé: British
  drapeau: GB
```

You can then follow the steps below to improve your model.

### Propose a change on an existing model

1. Open the corresponding file for the region (according to the
country/language codes).
2. Rewrite the file according to the rules declared in the base model (french).

   :::warning Caution
   
   Be careful to report the keys of the french model **exactly** as-is.
   Otherwise the translation will not be operational. You can copy-paste them
   in order to be sure they are exactly the same.

   :::

   For instance, the carbon intensity of the electricity mix is defined in the
   rule `intensité électricité` of the file `data/divers/commun.publicodes`. To
   edit that value and title in the newly created model, you should re-write
   this rule with the new attributes.

   Example for the UK:

   ```yaml
   intensité électricité:
     titre: Climate intensity of United-Kingdom's electricity mix
     formule: 0.236
     note: |
       [Electricity Map](https://app.electricitymaps.com/map) view 5 years, 2022
   ```
 
:::note Note

The model's code may contain minor subtilities (in particular in order to
generate 'Mosaics'), do not hesitate to ask for help if you don't understand
something.

:::

For your modifications to be taken into account, it is necessary to have both
file `XX-fr.publicodes` and `XX-en.publicodes` (for french and english
language) containing the rules identical to the twin file but translated. You
can use the `scripts/i18n/translateRegionModel.js` script to automatically
translate your file. Be carefull, the previously translated file will be
overwritten. If translation improvements have been made before, take a look at
the diffs. 

Find the documentation about the translation [here](./traduction).

:::tip Tips

- Think about translating your region model (see previous section)
- You can (and should) contribute with running the simulator locally in order
  to see what modifications you brought in real time. (See the [contribution
  guide
  (FR)](https://github.com/incubateur-ademe/nosgestesclimat/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md))

:::

### Step 3 : Make a Pull Request

When you are happy with your modifications, make a PR
([guide](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request)).

Review your modifications before to publish it. But don't worry : if you broke
something, you will see a comment with details of what doesn't work anymore.
Someone will also review your edits before they are merged in production.

### Step 4 : Review your modifications

Your version of the model is now linked to the website of "nosgestesclimat".
You can see your modifications live at the following address
`https://nosgestesclimat.fr/simulateur/bilan?PR={PR-ID}`. (Replace `{PR-ID}`
with the id of your PR.)

### Step 5 : Validate your modifications

Our team will review your changes and they will be able to answer your
questions. The goal is to propose a version of the model for each
country/region. When your changes will be validated, it will be deployed and
online on our website. Any person that will connect from the specific country,
you made a model for, will see your version.
